---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Parte 2
date: 2019-01-08T15:32:24.731Z
description: '   '
tags:
  - '1'
  - '2'
  - '3'
  - '4'
  - '5'
---
Best Practices to Secure REST APIs
Below given points may serve as a checklist for designing the security mechanism for REST APIs.

Keep it Simple
Secure an API/System – just how secure it needs to be. Every time you make the solution more complex “unnecessarily”, you are also likely to leave a hole.

Always Use HTTPS
By always using SSL, the authentication credentials can be simplified to a randomly generated access token that is delivered in the username field of HTTP Basic Auth. It’s relatively simple to use, and you get a lot of security features for free.

If you use HTTP 2, to improve performance – you can even send multiple requests over a single connection, that way you avoid the complete TCP and SSL handshake overhead on later requests.

Use Password Hash
Passwords must always be hashed to protect the system (or minimize the damage) even if it is compromised in some hacking attempt. There are many such hashing algorithms which can prove really effective for password security e.g. MD5, SHA, PBKDF2, bcrypt and scrypt algorithms.

Never expose information on URLs
Usernames, passwords, session tokens, and API keys should not appear in the URL, as this can be captured in web server logs, which makes them easily exploitable.

https://api.domain.com/user-management/users/{id}/someAction?apiKey=abcd123456789  //Very BAD !!
Above URL exposes API key So, never use this form of security.

Consider OAuth
Though basic auth is good enough for most of the APIs and if implemented correctly, it’s secure as well – yet you may want to consider OAuth as well. The OAuth 2.0 authorization framework enables a third-party application to obtain limited access to an HTTP service, either on behalf of a resource owner by orchestrating an approval interaction between the resource owner and the HTTP service, or by allowing the third-party application to obtain access on its own behalf.

Consider Adding Timestamp in Request
Along with other request parameters, you may add a request timestamp as HTTP custom header in API request. The server will compare the current timestamp to the request timestamp, and only accepts the request if it is within a reasonable timeframe (1-2 minutes, perhaps).

This will prevent very basic replay attacks from people who are trying to brute force your system without changing this timestamp.

Input Parameter Validation
Validate request parameters on the very first step, before it reaches to application logic. Put strong validation checks and reject the request immediately if validation fails. In API response, send relevant error messages and example of correct input format to improve user experience.
